h1. Userify

Super simple authentication system for Rails, using username, email and password.

Userify focuses on the following 6 conventional actions, and that's all.

( signup / signin / signout / activate / forgot / reset )

Userify is inspired by "Clearance":http://github.com/thoughtbot/clearance.

h2. Limitations

Currently, Userify is available only when you create a new project. Don't expect it to work in existing projects.

h2. Requirements

Userify requires Haml. However, when you override the default template, you don't have to use Haml.

h2. How to use it?

Here's the setup method.

Install Userify gem, as well as Haml.

    sudo gem install haml
    sudo gem install userify

In config/environment.rb:

    config.gem "haml"
    config.gem "userify"
    DO_NOT_REPLY = "donotreply@example.com"

Run the generator:

    script/generate userify

In config/environments/development.rb and test.rb:

    HOST = "localhost:3000"

Define root_url to *something* in your config/routes.rb. Assuming home controller for root:

    map.root :controller => 'home'

Create user_controller.rb and home_controller.rb:

    script/generate controller user
    script/generate controller home

Rewrite user_controller.rb as follows:

    class UserController < Userify::UsersController
    end

Edit home_controller.rb:

    class HomeController < ApplicationController
      def index
      end
    end

Create app/views/home/index.html.haml:

    - if signed_in?
      %p= "Hello #{current_user.name}!"

    %h1 Home

    %p My app home

    - if signed_in?
      %p= link_to 'sign out', signout_url
    - else
      %p= link_to 'sign up', signup_url
      %p= link_to 'sign in', signin_url

Rename public/index.html:

    mv public/index.html public/_index.html

Run migration and start server:

    rake db:migrate
    script/server

Now, go to http://localhost:3000/ and check how everything works.

h2. Customize

There are a couple of ways to customize Userify:

1. Override methods in the user_controller subclass.

You might want to override the following methods in your user_controller subclass.

UserController methods:

    url_after_signup
    url_after_signin
    url_after_signout
    url_after_activate
    url_after_forgot
    url_after_reset

View templates:

    app/views/layouts/application.html.haml
    app/views/layouts/_error_messages.html.haml
    
    app/views/user/forgot.html.haml
    app/views/user/reset.html.haml
    app/views/user/signin.html.haml
    app/views/user/signup.html.haml
    
    app/views/userify_mailer/confirmation.html.erb
    app/views/userify_mailer/reset_password.html.erb


2. Unpack Userify gem into vendor/gems and directly edit source.

    rake gems:unpack
